# PHP-CRUD

This collection of files sets up a basic database of users on your machine and provides an interface to Create, Read, Update, and Delete entries in said database. The code is explained with consistent commenting throughout the project, such that you should be able to easily repurpose the database with basic working knowledge of HTML and SQL, as well as an understanding of PHP syntax. This project began as an interpretation of Tania Rascia's CRUD setup tutorial, which you can find at [this link](https://www.taniarascia.com/create-a-simple-database-app-connecting-to-mysql-with-php/). Please note that there are many differences between the application built in the tutorial and my final product, as I only used the tutorial as a loose guide.

## Set Up

If you wish to run this application on your computer, you will need to follow the steps below to install it on your computer:
- First you will need to download this folder to your computer. You may do this either by downloading the document as a zip file, or by cloning the git repository to a folder on your computer using Git Bash. In order to do this, click the green button labeled "Clone or Download", and select your method of retrieving the file.
- If you want to use the git clone method, your first step is to copy the link provided. From here you want to navigate to the desired location on your computer in your Git Bash terminal, or navigate to the desired location via your explorer, right click and select "Git Bash Here". Within your Git Bash terminal, type the following: 
`git clone https://github.com/aehaq/PHP-CRUD.git`
- If you do not have MySQL and/or PHP installed, please intall it now. If you need help installing PHP or MySQL, or if you are unsure about whether PHP is properly installed on your computer, I have created a repository which should help you troubleshoot those issues: [PHP-Getting Started](https://github.com/aehaq/PHP-Getting-Started)
- Once the application is on your computer, and MySQL is intalled, open the `config.php` file, and edit the string values of `$username` and `$password` to match the username and password appropriate to your MySQL setup. If you are unsure, the default username is usually "root" and your password is likely to be one of the following: "root", "password", or "".
- Run the following command in terminal, from the root of this repository: `php -S localhost:8000` (Note: You can designate your port with a number other than 8000 if you need or wish to). If succesful, you should receive a message stating that the server is listening at the port you designated. 
- Visit the localhost link you designated in your browser, from there you should be directed to a landing page. From this landing page you can access the different database interaction tools from the tabs at the top of the page, however you will not be able to interact with those tools until you have the application run the database install/reset link. You can click the appropriate button on the landing page, which will redirect you to a page which will run the install for you. If your MySQL credentials and instillation are correct and working, you should get a success page. Navigate back to the index, and you should be ready to go! 
